# Applied-Data-Science-for-Business-
Apply data mining techniques to real-world business related problems. In this repository, there are several examples of how I used data science to provide key insight in the business world.


## Use Cases: Identifying Priority Customers and Improving Customer Targeting for Charles Book Club
Explores the application of data mining techniques in targeted marketing campaigns with the goal of improving campaign ROI for organizations. The industries represented in these use cases include direct-to-consumer subscription services and consumer goods. The company is looking to target its customers more accurately.  The company would like to use the information contained in their databases to identify who is most likely to be interested in a specific offer. This information enables them to design special programs carefully tailored to meet their customer segments’ varying needs. In addition, customers are segmented  to improve customer targeting in order to optimize marketing campaign ROI and identify the company's most important sales prospects.

## Use Cases: Predicting Purchase Behavior and Product Prices for Tayko Software Cataloger
Explores the application of data mining techniques in predicting customer purchase behavior and product prices. Tayko is a software catalog firm that sells games and educational software. It started out as a software manufacturer and later added third-party titles to its offerings. It has recently put together a revised collection of items in a new catalog, which it is preparing to roll out in a mailing. In this use case, data mining methods are used to make recommendations to optimize the mailing catalog and gross profits.

## Use Cases: Predicting Rideshare Cancelations for YourCabs.com
In late 2013, the taxi company Yourcabs.com in Bangalore, India, was facing a problem with the drivers using their platform—not all drivers were showing up for their scheduled calls. Drivers would cancel their acceptance of a call, and if the cancellation did not occur with adequate notice, the customer would be delayed or even left high and dry. In this use case, logistic regression, decision tree, and random forest classifiers are built to predict rideshare cancelations.

## Use Cases: Marketing Campaign Uplift modeling and Improving Cost Effectiveness in Marketing Campaigns for Direct-Mail Fundraising
Explores the application of data mining techniques in driving uplift in consumer goods sales and improving the cost-effectiveness of direct marketing campaigns. A national veterans’ organization wishes to develop a predictive model to improve the cost-effectiveness of its direct marketing campaign. The organization, with its in-house database of over 13 million donors, is one of the largest direct-mail fundraisers in the United States. According to their recent mailing records, the overall response rate is 5.1%. Out of those who responded (donated), the average donation is $13.00. Each mailing, which includes a gift of personalized address labels and assortments of cards and envelopes, costs $0.68 to produce and send. Data mining methods are used to improve the cost-effectiveness of direct marketing campaigns.

## Use Cases: Understanding Consumer Purchase Behavior, and Brand Loyalty for Bath Soap 
CRISA is an Asian market research agency that specializes in tracking consumer purchase behavior in consumer goods (both durable and nondurable). In one major research project, CRISA tracks numerous consumer product categories (e.g., “detergents”) and, within each category, perhaps dozens of brands. To track purchase behavior, CRISA constituted household panels in over 100 cities and towns in India, covering most of the Indian urban market. The households were carefully selected using stratified sampling to ensure a representative sample; a subset of 600 records is analyzed here. The strata were defined on the basis of socioeconomic status and the market (a collection of cities). Data mining methods will be used to understand their purchase behavior and influence brand loyalty.
